Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we are going to write P p to create custom API end points so that users can create
a like or delete a like.
If you're wondering why we're going to create new custom end points instead of using the default rest
API endpoints.
Don't worry, we will cover the Y a bit later on in the video.
OK, so I'm on a professor detailed screen and in our previous lesson we set things up so that if you
click on the lightbox, that's going to fire off one of two methods.
So here we are in our like just module.
And when you click the like box, it's either going to fire off, create like or delete like.
And instead of these test alert messages, what we really want to do is send off a request to a custom
API Eurail.
So right now, on the side of things, let's go create or register new custom API funerals.
So to do that, let's jump into functions dot BHP and we could just start coding this new feature anywhere
in this file.
But in order to stay super organized, why don't we write our new HP in a separate file?
You might remember that we've already done this for our custom search roud.
For example, in the root of our theme folder, we have a sub folder named C, which stands for INCLUDE,
and it contains a file named Search Dash Routt.
And remember, that's where we wrote all of the code that powers the custom search rest API you URL.
So why don't we do this just to stay organized within this C folder?
Why don't we create a brand new file?
The name of this file does not matter, but why don't we call it like Dash Rao, dot BHP.
Within this file, let's open up tag.
You actually do not need a closing tag if your file is just pure IP and doesn't contain any HTML.
OK, let's go ahead and save that again.
And then back in our functions file, let's import or require in that brand new file that we just created
now up at the top of my functions file.
I've got this existing require line.
You could just copy and paste and adjust that.
But if that's not up at the top for you, I'll just type it out again to give you a reference.
So we say require and then we just point towards a file.
Now, WordPress makes this easy because it has a function named get the file part.
Let's end this line with a semicolon.
And then within these parentheses, we just provide a path that's relative to our theme folder.
So let's say go inside that I n c subfolder.
And we just named that brand new file like Dash throughout dot HP.
OK, let's go ahead and save that and then let's jump in to our brand new like root file.
Let's begin by adding an action.
So add action.
And the name of the WordPress event that we want to hook onto is Rest API.
Annet, you might remember that we've used this before.
Whenever we want to add a new custom route or add a new field to a route.
OK, then for the second argument, let's make up a function name.
We could call it whatever we want, but let's say university like rabbits.
Next, let's create a function with this exact matching name.
So function university like route's parentheses, curly brackets, OK, and within this function, what
we want to do is register two new rabbits.
A root is basically just a rest api u rl.
Now if you wanted to save some typing, you could just jump into the search route file that lives in
our agency folder.
So if I do that here, we can see the register rest route method.
So you could just copy and paste this and adjust it to meet your needs.
But I think practice makes perfect.
So why don't we type it out by hand and analyze how it works.
So within this brand new function that we just set up, let's say register, reste Routt, OK, and
within the parentheses, we want to give it three arguments.
You could say A, B, C is placeholders.
The first argument is the beginning part of the you are well known as the namespace.
So why don't we say university slash V one.
This doesn't matter.
It could be whatever you please.
Then the second argument is the name for this specific route or U.
RL so why don't we say Manege like again, the name does not matter.
We can make up whatever we want.
And the final and third argument is an array within the array parentheses.
I like to dropdown.
And in the array, we want to provide two things.
So first is Method's I will set that to a temporary X placeholder and the other property is called back.
All right.
Now, before we fill in these placeholder X values and before we even review the terms, callback and
methods, what I first want to do is duplicate this entire register restroom block of code.
So I'm just going to copy this.
Right below it pasted in, and the reason I want two of these is because I want the first one to be
for the post method and I want the second one to be for the delete method.
So the word methods in this context just means the type of HTP request that this route is responsible
for.
So that's why we are setting up two different routes, even though they are targeting the same Eurail
that you would type in.
Right.
University V1 managed like they are unique because this one will respond to a post request and this
one will respond to a delete request.
All right.
And then callback is just a function that we want to run when a request is sent to one of these routes.
Now, we could type out an inline anonymous function here, but instead to stay organized.
Why don't we do this down at the very bottom of this file?
Let's create two brand new functions.
You could name these functions, whatever you please, but I'm going to name them, create like parentheses,
curly brackets and I will name the other function.
You might have guessed it delete like.
OK, so now if someone sends a post request I want to respond with or I want my callback to be the create
like function.
And if someone sends a delete request, I want to respond by calling the deadly like function, OK,
and then within these functions, we are free to do absolutely whatever we want.
So this is where we will programmatically create a new like post.
And this is where we will programmatically delete a like post and we can implement our own custom,
logic and restrictions.
Right.
Things like each user can only like each professor once.
Now, before we get into that, why don't we just return a sample message here?
Because whatever these functions return is the data that will be available to our JavaScript.
Let me show you what I mean.
So within this create like function, let's just return a string of text that says thanks for trying
to create a like and underline with a semicolon and within the delete like function.
Let's return a string of text.
Thanks for trying to delete a like semicolon at the end.
OK, let's go ahead and save this.
And now let's write a bit of JavaScript so that when you click the like box, JavaScript will send out
a request to either this route or this route.
OK, so let's jump back into our like JS module and let's start with our create like method.
So let's delete this alert test message, pop up and instead let's use J queries Ajax Tool.
So Dollar Sign Dot Ajax.
OK, that's a method.
Now within the parentheses, we want to provide it an object, a javascript object with different properties.
So I like to dropdown within the curly brackets and let's give this object a few different properties.
The first is U.
RL, we can fill this in in just a moment.
Let's add a placeholder.
We also want a property named type.
This is the type of HTP request that we want to send, I will say quotes all capital post.
That's the traditional type when you want to create something.
OK, then let's add another property named Success.
This is a function that will run if our request is successful.
Let's just add a placeholder.
And then there's also a property named error, which is also a function that will run if the request
fails.
OK, now let's go through and fill out the X placeholders.
So for the you are l we want that to be university data dot route.
You are.
Well that's the property that we set up a long time ago that gives us the flexible route part of the
domain.
And then we want to add on slash WP Dash Jason.
And if we were using the default rest API endpoints points for a post type, then we would type slash
WP, slash V2 and then whatever post type we wanted to work with.
Right.
So either posts or pages or note.
However, in this case, since we set up custom endpoints, let's say WP, JSON, slash university slash
V1.
Right.
Because that's the namespace that we used when we just registered the new rounds and then we named our
roots Manege like, OK, so just make sure that this part that I'm highlighting matches the name that
you used back in our new AP file.
Right.
You wanted to match this.
OK, so back in our JavaScript, let's provide success and error functions, so if our request is successful,
let's just provide an S6 Arrow function and within the curly brackets or body of the function, let's
just say console dot, log response, whatever the word press server responds with.
In order to do that, though, we want to be sure to pass response as a parameter within these parentheses.
OK, and for now, let's just do the exact same thing if the request fails.
So for the error function parentheses.
Arrow symbol, curly brackets, console, dot, log response and be sure to pass that as a parameter.
OK, so we've got this test code in place for the create like method.
Now let's do the same thing for our delete like method.
Let's save a ton of typing by just duplicating this Ajax call.
So copy from here to here.
Copy that into my clipboard then within the delete like method, just get rid of the alert and paste
in your clipboard.
For now.
The only thing we need to change is the type of request that we're sending.
Instead of a post request, let's send a delete request.
Everything else can stay exactly the same.
We can target the exact same Eurail.
OK, let's go ahead and save this and make sure that your JavaScript gets rebundled and then let's hop
over to the front end.
And I have not liked this professor yet.
So if I click on the like box and then check my console.
Cool, we see.
Thanks for trying to create a like this means that our custom API endpoints are doing their job.
We successfully registered those new neutrals and they are returning the desired data just as a test.
If I go back to Dr. Bachs a lot, I've already like this professor.
So if I click on the lightbox and then check my console, thanks for trying to delete a like cool.
So at this point our front end JavaScript is successfully communicating with our back end up.
Now that's going to bring this video to a close.
But in the next part of this lesson, we are going to write the IP to actually programmatically create
or delete a like post.
So if I jump back into that new like group file within these two functions, we are going to write the
necessary code to not only create or delete a like post, but also enforce all of our custom, logic
and restrictions.
And this is where things really start to get fun.
We're starting to put all of the pieces together, the front end, the back end HTTP requests and making
queries to the WordPress database.
And once you're comfortable with smushing all of those things together, you can build pretty much whatever
you can think up.
So let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next part of this lesson.